\" utoprc.5
\" --------
\" Copyright : (c) 2011, Jeremie Dimino <jeremie@dimino.org>
\" Licence   : BSD3
\"
\" This file is a part of utop.

.TH UTOPRC 5 "August 2011"

.SH NAME
utoprc \- Configuration file of utop

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/.utoprc

.SH DESCRIPTION

This manual page describes the format of the
.I ~/.utoprc
file. This is a text file which contains the configuration of
utop. Comments start with a '!' and empty lines are
ignored. Configuration lines are of the form:

        <wildcard>: <value>

.I <wildcard>
may contains the '*' star character. In that case any key which match
the pattern is given the value after the colon.

The boolean key
.I autoload
can be set to
.I false
to disable the autoloading of files in
.I $OCAML_TOPLEVEL_PATH/autoload
at startup.

The key
.I external-editor
can be set to a command line. It is used to edit the input when
pressing C-x C-e. It defaults to the contents of the
.I EDITOR
environment variable.

The key
.I profile
may have the value
.I dark
or
.I light.
This is the same as calling
.I UTop.set_profile
in
.I ~/.ocamlinit.

The following style keys are used by utop:

        * identifier
        * module
        * comment
        * doc
        * constant
        * keyword
        * symbol
        * string
        * char
        * quotation
        * error
        * directive
        * parenthesis
        * blanks

For each of these keys, the following sub-keys are used:

        * key.foreground
        * key.background
        * key.bold
        * key.underline
        * key.reverse
        * key.blink

.I key.foreground
and
.I key.background
are colors, and the others are booleans. Colors may be one of the
standard terminal colors:

        * black
        * red
        * green
        * yellow
        * blue
        * magenta
        * cyan
        * white
        * light-black
        * light-red
        * light-green
        * light-yellow
        * light-blue
        * light-magenta
        * light-cyan
        * light-white

or X11 colors, prefixed with "x-". For example:

        identifier.foreground:  x-goldenrod

Colors can also be given by their RGB components, written #RRGGBB. For
example:

        identifier.foreground:  #5fbf7f

utop will choose the nearest color of the terminal when specifying a
X11 color or a color given by its RGB components. If you are using
gnome-terminal or konsole, you can enable 256 colors by setting the
environment variable TERM to "xterm-256color".

.SH FILES
.I ~/.utoprc

.SH EXAMPLE
profile:                  dark
.RS
.RE
identifier.foreground:    none
.RS
.RE
comment.foreground:       x-chocolate1
.RS
.RE
doc.foreground:           x-light-salmon
.RS
.RE
constant.foreground:      x-aquamarine
.RS
.RE
keyword.foreground:       x-cyan1
.RS
.RE
symbol.foreground:        x-cyan1
.RS
.RE
string.foreground:        x-light-salmon
.RS
.RE
char.foreground:          x-light-salmon
.RS
.RE
quotation.foreground:     x-purple
.RS
.RE
error.foreground:         x-red
.RS
.RE
parenthesis.background:   blue

.SH AUTHOR
Jérémie Dimino <jeremie@dimino.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR utop (1).
